The Human Federation is the sole governing body of humanity by the 24th century. It was founded in the aftermath of a disastrous global nuclear exchange in an alternate 1994 that wiped out almost all civilization.

The Federation is founded on the principles of anthropocentrism (the belief that human beings are the most important things in the universe), the belief that all human beings are inherently good/have good intentions, and that human life is priceless. Soon after first contact with aliens this also includes the belief that any xenos are fundamentally inferior to humans.

This was bold for the environment in which it was founded (a post nuclear radioactive wasteland) but the Federation had force and technology to defend itself, both directly and pre-emptively and this worldview helped foster cooperation and development inside it's territory.

It's technology and might would continue to advance while the radiation levels slowly subsided over decades. By the time radiation levels subsided to a minimum the Federation was accelerating the process by manufacturing radiation-neutralizing machines.

The Federation is technocratic in it's structure: the public, while listened to greatly, does not elect the leader, that is done by a committee of various experts, who are picked based on their competence rather than popularity.

The Federation as a government is secular but regulated spirituality (that does not contain anything perceived to be against the values of the Federation, like human beings not being inherently good) is allowed and is relatively popular.

The Federation is meant to be morally ambiguous. It is quite human supremacist and anti-alien, using manipulation, lies and empty words to maintain positive relations with others. It openly talks about alien genocide without remorse or euphemisms and even has a bit of human undesirables it sometimes decides to eliminate.

It's leaders, however, have genuinely good intentions and act in what they see as humanity's best interests and are focused on improving the quality of life and happiness not because that will help them be in power but because they truly care about the welfare of those they administrate.

24th century human society is also very good to live in. Advanced technology has eliminated most disease and extended life-spans, quality of life even for those at the very lowest part of the social hierarchy is several times higher than those on the very top before the nuclear war, and almost all hate toward other human beings is gone, replaced with anti-alien xenophobia.